♪ (upbeat music) ♪
I wanted to tell you why I
care so much about improvement.
I wanted to tell you why I'm
so passionate about the work
that we do here and it's a
story, it's a personal story.
It's about my brother Johnny.
I'm the oldest of nine
children, a big Irish family,
and we're all very close,
but my brother was really
a special kid.
He was handsome and smart and
sociable and warm and nice.
He was hugely successful
in school and he even
turned out to be the ball
boy for the Boston Celtics.
So here he is, one of the
championship teams in Boston.
He was a tremendous guy to be with.
When he was 17, though,
he was diagnosed
with Hodgkin's disease and
he went through
lots of treatments and
I was there with him,
as was the rest of the
family, throughout his care.
I remember though as he
got more and more sick,
that he started coming up to
my apartment and he would say
"Maureen, I'm not gonna make it."
And I thought my job was to
give him hope and optimism
and encouragement.
I thought my job was to talk
about the next treatment,
the next radiation
treatment or the next round
of chemotherapy, and I found
that I was always offering
him this hope and optimism
without really understanding
what he was thinking.
And so one day I learned
an incredible lesson
when he was in the hospital.
It was a regular day when
all the physicians came in
and were making rounds and
walking around, talking over
his bed about his care,
and then they all left
and one physician came back in.
He was a radiation oncologist
and he came back into the room
and he said to my brother,
"Johnny, what do you want?"
and my brother said,
"I wanna go home."
And without saying a word,
the physician came over
and he took my jacket off
me and he went and he put it
over my brother and he picked
him up and he carried him
to my car.
I know he broke every
rule in the hospital.
I know nurses were chasing
after him, coming down the hall,
but he knew that my brother
was at the end of his life
and he knew that that question
was the most important
question that he could ask.
What do you want?
So when we got my brother home,
I said to him the same thing.
"Johnny, what do you want?"
And he said, "I want to be 21."
This was a few days
before his birthday.
My brother turned 21 just
a couple of weeks after
I brought him home, on
November 25th, and he died
on December 1st.
And I will always be
grateful to that physician
for all these years, for
38 years I've been carrying
this picture around in my
purse, every single day,
looking at my brother and
looking at how thin and sick
he was and realizing what a
difference that physician made
because for those weeks
that he was home,
he had friends and family.
We were able to laugh.
We were able to look back at
his life and enjoy every minute
of those weeks.
If he were still in the
hospital, which is what
would have happened without
that physician's courage,
I know that we would
have had visiting hours
and the little kids in the
family wouldn't have been able
to access him.
His friends wouldn't have been
able to come and celebrate
in the group and my brother
would have died a very different
death.
So that physician told me that
one, we need to understand
what matters to you?
Asking that one question,
What do you want?
Made such a difference in
his life and then we really
need to understand the
constraints and the rules
and really think about
how do we use improvement
to make every day special
for every patient?
♪♪